P31 consul简介   go语言写的
1.官网
https://www.consul.io/docs/intro
2.安装并运行
如果没有alibaba的 Nacos，可能consul就会代替eureka

本地安装路径备忘
    G:\software\springcloud\consul
    cmd 本路径
    输入 consul
    输入 consul --version  或  consul version

输入 consul agent -dev 使用开发模式启动

浏览器输入： http://localhost:8500/ui/dc1/services
进入默认前端页面  

对应微服务 8006 consul服务提供者
0.启动本地consul
1.yml文件添加配置

spring:
  application:
    name: consul-provider-payment
####consul注册中心地址
  cloud:
    consul:
      host: localhost
      port: 8500
      discovery:
        #hostname: 127.0.0.1
        service-name: ${spring.application.name}
    具体查看：
    G:\workspace\cloud2020\cloud-providerconsul-payment8006\src\main\resources\application.yml
    
2.主启动类添加注解：@EnableDiscoveryClient
3.http://localhost:8006/payment/consul




The key features of Consul are:

Service Discovery: 
    Clients of Consul can register a service, such as api or mysql,
    and other clients can use Consul to discover providers of a given service. 
    Using either DNS or HTTP, applications can easily find the services they depend upon.

Health Checking: 
    Consul clients can provide any number of health checks, 
    either associated with a given service ("is the webserver returning 200 OK"), 
    or with the local node ("is memory utilization below 90%"). This information can be used by an operator to monitor cluster health, 
    and it is used by the service discovery components to route traffic away from unhealthy hosts.

KV Store: 
    Applications can make use of Consul's hierarchical key/value store for any number of purposes, 
    including dynamic configuration, feature flagging, coordination, leader election, and more. 
    The simple HTTP API makes it easy to use.

Secure Service Communication: 
    Consul can generate and distribute TLS certificates for services to establish mutual TLS connections.
    Intentions can be used to define which services are allowed to communicate. 
    Service segmentation can be easily managed with intentions that can be changed in real time 
    instead of using complex network topologies and static firewall rules.

Multi Datacenter: 
    Consul supports multiple datacenters out of the box. 
    This means users of Consul do not have to worry about building additional layers of abstraction to grow to multiple regions.

Consul is designed to be friendly to both the DevOps community and application developers, making it perfect for modern,
 elastic infrastructures.
